# astro_toolbox
Toolbox for doing astrodynamics work, developed as part of my classwork. Assumes an idealized 2-body-problem.
Generally units are kilometers and seconds, SI otherwise.

# util.py
Utilities to make life easier:
- Values for mu and planetary radius for Sol and all nine planets (yes, this includes Pluto, no matter what the official designation is)
- Wrappers around numpy's degrees/radian conversion, linalg.norm, and unit vector creation. Provided for ease of typing and to encapsulate for possible future customization
- square_3d(ax) for giving a 3D plot a "square" aspect ratio (i.e. all axes are the same scale). Should be called after plotting is finished
- calendar_to_jde and jde_to_calendar for handling Julian dates, which are needed for Meeus calculations and time of flight between dates

# Orbit.py
Orbit class for storing and manipulating orbits

Orbits can be created using:
- Orbit(e, a, i, LAN, AoP, f, t, mu) to create an orbit from Keplerian orbital elements. The optional argument time_mode can be set to "tau" to interpret "t" as setting the time of periapsis passage directly or set to "t0" to interpret "t" as the current time
- Orbit.from_orbit(source) to create an orbit that is a copy of an existing one. The normal constructor arguments are all optional arguments to force-override those elements
- Orbit.from_pvt(position, velocity, mu, t0) to create an orbit from a position vector, velocity vector, and time. Primarily used when solving Lambert's Problem
- Orbit.from_Lambert(position_1, position_2, tof, mu) to generate a transfer orbit for the given positions and time of flight by solving Lambert's Problem. Note: tof should be in seconds
- Orbit.from_meeus(planet, JDE) to generate an orbit from the Meeus algorithm. JDE should be a Julian date, such as generated by util.calendar_to_jde

Various properties and methods are provided, including:
- All Keplerian orbital elements, as well as orbital period and eccentric anomaly
- predict(time) to calculate true and eccentric anomaly at an arbitrary time
- position_velocity() which takes an optional time argument, returning the position and velocity relative to the central body
- plot() to plot orbit path, with options to plot multiple or partial orbits and select 2D or 3D plotting
- plot_point() to plot the object's position, usually used in conjunction with plot() to show the current position along the orbit path

## Future work
Handle hyperbolic orbits
Performance improvements
Integrate numerical integration and perturbations (completed as part of a homework assignment, but not yet cleaned up for the library)
